Half Life 2 (2004) is a physics-based first-person shooter, created by Valve. The team at Valve had high expectations to live up to, as Half Life (1998) was one of, if not the most innovative shooter games of its time. The development of Half Life 2 started only 6 months after the release of Half Life and took five years to develop. The development cost $40 Million, but more than made up for it, and has made around $22,604,769 in net revenue. 

Half Life 2 had fans so excited for its release during its development cycle that in 2003, a young German hacker named Axel Gembe used network scanning and empty passwords to get through Valves lackluster security and check out progress on the game's development. He sent these files to his friend, who then sent them to his friends, this eventually spiraled out of control and ended up with the source code leaking onto the internet. The game was due for release in a few weeks, but the development team was around 12 months behind where they should’ve been. The leak allowed the public to see how unfinished the game was and caused the game to be reworked from the ground up, changing the dark and gritty atmosphere the game had at the time, and completely altering the game’s story. The leak cost Valve around $250M and was incredibly detrimental to the company. 

Axel Gembe eventually reached out to Valve, admitted that it was him who committed the crime, and asked Gabe Newell for a job at Valve. He was invited to a face-to-face interview with Valve themselves. This interview was a trap set by the FBI and Valve to have him arrested as soon as he stepped foot on American soil. There were concerns about the potential damage he could cause, so the FBI notified German police, and informed them about the plan. The next morning, Gembe was arrested by the German police. He served two years of probation, because of his rough childhood and him turning his life around while waiting for his court date. The Half Life 2 leak, now known by most as the Half Life 2 Beta, is a well-loved niche within the Half Life 2 fanbase, and people are still searching for bits and pieces of lost content from this era of the game. 

Half Life 2 is built in the Source engine, created by Valve themselves. It is the successor to the GoldSRC or GoldSource engine, which the first game was built upon. The source engine has been praised since it was made for its distinct visual style and impressive physics. 

 