Half Life 2 is a first person shooter released by Valve in 2004, a direct sequel to Half Life which was released in 1998. The first game was considered one of, if not the, most innovative shooter games of the time because Valve had prioritised putting a coherent story alongside the physics based combat, which most other games in this genre did not seem to be doing at the time. Development began on Half Life 2 only six months after the first game’s release and took five years to develop, at a cost of $40 million.
It is one of my favourite games because it showcases how creative the team were, especially with puzzles, despite restrictions of the physics engine at the time. One example would be the movement of props in order to progress, which whilst seen in other games such as Tomb Raider and its box puzzles, seems to have been utilised well in Half Life 2. I also like the combat, the variety of weapons is especially good, and the vehicle sections which add a layer of complexity to the general level design. I like the art style, which is gritty and dystopian, representing the overall themes of the game, as Gordon Freeman fights through an apocalyptic scenario.
Having an unvoiced protagonist allows the player to project themselves into the game, which helps immersion greatly, and Freeman has become a staple of the gaming community even now.
There was a leak of Half Life 2’s source code in 2003, when Axel Gembe, a German hacker, managed to get through Valve’s security measures and sent files to his friend, who passed them on to another friend, and so on. Eventually the source code leaked onto the internet, showing that it was nowhere near finished despite being slated for release a few weeks later. It had to be reworked from the ground up, toning down the darker theme and changing the story that the game had originally intended to follow.
Gembe was invited for an interview with Valve, but this was in fact a trap set by the FBI and Valve, and he was arrested by German police. He served two years of probation. The leak, known now as the Half Life 2 Beta, is a well-loved niche within the fan base, especially as people are still searching for bits and pieces of lost content.
The character designs are some of my favourite from the franchise, as they had improved significantly from the first game, but still showed consistency with characters such as G Man and the scientists. 
The Source Engine was created by Valve, and is the successor to the GoldSource Engine that the first game was built upon. It has been praised for its distinct visual style and physics.
My friends and I play the game a lot, and it helped me develop a desire to create mods for other games.